The problem of generating a map under the assumption that the robot poses are
known and non noisy is referred to as mapping with known poses.
The mapping was known poses problem is represented
in this graph where x represents the poses,
z the measurements, and m the map.
The Occupancy Grid Mapping Algorithm can estimate
the posterior map giving noisy measurements and known poses.
In most robotic applications,
odometry data is noisy and robot poses are unknown to us,
so you might be wondering why mapping is necessary under such a situation.
Well, mapping usually happens after SLAM,
thus, the power of mapping is in its post-processing.
In SLAM, the problem changes from mapping with known poses to mapping with unknown poses.
During SLAM, the robot built in map of
the environment are localize itself relative to it.
After SLAM, the occupancy grid mapping algorithm
uses the exact robot poses filtered from SLAM.
Then with the known poses from SLAM and noisy measurements,
the mapping algorithm generate a map fit for path planning and navigation.